
Constrained Optimization - Inverse Knee Modeling
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
This section describes the potential effects of using constrained optimization when using inverse modeling to estimate knee ligament slack length. This was originally wirtten as a response to a reviewer.

The use of constraints in our optimization is novel, and it may be relevant to future studies that estimate ligament slack length with inverse modeling using either forward dynamics or a forward kinematics knee models. This contribution to the research area could lead to more repeatable estimations of slack length by reducing the impact of the optimization algorithm on the solution. The constraints prevented the optimization algorithm from effectively removing a ligament from by model by enforcing that each ligament carries a nominal load. This ensures that each ligament has an impact on the model's mechanics, and therefore the optimization iteration's objective value. 

An unconstrained optimization algorithm could reach a point where a ligament is too slack and carries zero force in the evaluation, resulting in that ligament having no effect on the objective value. For a forward kinematics model, this leads to that ligament being effectively removed from the model for all subsequent optimization iterations, and a similar result is possible for a forward dynamics model, depending on the kinematics in subsequent iterations. The impact of this could be an estimation of ligament slack length that is sensitive to the optimization algorithm's parameters and model's fidelity to the experiment. Use of constraints similar to the ones used in our study could reduce the optimization algorithm's impact on estimated ligament slack lengths, regardless of the type of knee model that is used.
